{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fprq2\fcharset2 Wingdings;}{\f2\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier;}}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1515;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\b\f0\fs36 Eventlog to Syslog v4.0\b0\par
\fs24 Release 4.0\par
Last revised July 29, 2009\par
\par
This product includes software developed by Purdue University.\par
\fs28\par
\fs24 The Eventlog to Syslog utility is a windows service originally created by Curtis Smith at Purdue University. The original utility and source code can be found at the following website: https://engineering.purdue.edu/ECN/Resources/Documents/UNIX/evtsys/\par
\par
Version 4 was modified by Sherwin Faria in July, 2009, in order to meet the needs of Rochester Institute of Technology.\par
\par
This update of the Eventlog to Syslog client builds upon the original code by offering several bug fixes and some additional features.\par
\par
Changes in v4.0:\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\tx720\f1\'a7\tab\f0 Added ability to ignore specific events\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\f1\'a7\tab\f0 Added a status file for monitoring service operation\par
\f1\'a7\tab\f0 Added event\rquote s timestamp to outgoing messages\par
\f1\'a7\tab\f0 Added compatibility with the Vista/Server 2008 Windows Events service\par
\f1\'a7\tab\f0 Added ability to send to two Syslog servers simultaneously\par
\f1\'a7\tab\f0 Fixed a possible memory exception with bad message definitions\par
\f1\'a7\tab\f0 Fixed a bug where utility would not search all message files\par
\pard\par
Send all comments, questions, bug reports, and requests to:\par
\par
Sherwin Faria\par
Rochester Institute of Technology\par
Information & Technology Services, Bldg. 10\par
1 Lomb Memorial Drive\par
Rochester, NY 14623, U.S.A.\par
sef3444@rit.edu\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s1\sb240\sa60\kerning32\b\fs32 TABLE OF CONTENTS\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa60\tx720\kerning0\fs24 1)\tab Usage\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\sa60 2)\tab Installing the Service\par
3)\tab Uninstalling the Service\par
4)\tab Debug Mode\par
5)\tab Specifying Log Hosts\par
6)\tab Specifying Syslog Facility\par
7)\tab Appendix\fs28\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60 1.  Usage:\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \li720\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li720\sb120\f2\fs20 Version: 4.0 (32-bit)\par
\pard\li720\ri-720 Usage: evtsys.exe -i|-u|-d [-h host] [-b host] [-f facility] [-p port]\par
\pard\li720   -i           Install service\par
  -u           Uninstall service\par
  -d           Debug: run as console program\par
  -h host      Name of log host\par
  -b host      Name of secondary log host (optional)\par
  -f facility  Facility level of syslog message\par
  -p port      Port number of syslogd\par
\par
Default port: 514\par
Default facility: daemon\par
\pard\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \li720 Host (-h) required if installing.\par
\pard\f0\fs24\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\b\fs28 2. Installing the Service\par
\pard\b0\fs24 The Service installs four registry values in \b HKLM\\SOFTWARE\\ECN\\EvtSys\\3.0\par
\pard\fi720\b0 Facility (DWORD)\par
LogHost (String)\par
LogHost2 (String)\par
Port (DWORD).\par
\pard\par
If no secondary host is specified LogHost2 is blank.\par
It also registers itself as a service under the name evtsys and displays in services.msc as \ldblquote Eventlog to Syslog\rdblquote .\par
\par
The program must be installed from the command line and must be located in C:\\Windows\\System32\par
After you have run evtsys.exe with the \i -i\i0  switch and specified a loghost you can then type \i net start evtsys\i0  to start the service.\par
To start or stop the service from the command line type: \b\i net start evtsys\b0\i0     or    \b\i net stop evtsys\par
\b0\i0 Alternatively you can start the service from the Services control panel in Administrative Tools. Look for "Eventlog to Syslog".\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\b\fs28 3. Uninstalling\par
\pard\b0\fs24 Uninstalling the service will delete the registry keys created during installation and unregister the Eventlog to Syslog service. All files will remain in their current location.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\fs28 4. Debug Mode\par
\pard\b0\fs24 Debug mode provides additional information on the operation of the service.\par
The following information is displayed while in debug mode:\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\tx720\f1\'a7\tab\f0 The source and ID of an ignored event\par
\pard\fi-360\li720\f1\'a7\tab\f0 All error messages\par
\pard\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\fs28 5. Specifying Log Hosts\par
\pard\b0\fs24 Use command line switches \i\endash h\i0  and \i\endash b\i0  to specify your primary and secondary Syslog servers. The \i\endash b\i0  switch is optional, but \i\endash h\i0  is required when installing the agent. \par
\par
You may specify either the hostname or IP address of a host. The utility will convert the hostname into an IP address and store that address into the registry.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\fs28 6. Specifying Facility\par
\pard\b0\fs24 The Syslog protocol specifies 24 facilities:\par
\pard\li720   0 kernel messages\par
  1 user-level messages\par
  2 mail system\par
  3 system daemons\par
  4 security/authorization messages\par
  5 messages generated internally by syslogd\par
  6 line printer subsystem\par
  7 network news subsystem\par
  8 UUCP subsystem\par
  9 clock daemon\par
10 security/authorization messages\par
11 FTP daemon\par
12 NTP subsystem\par
13 log audit\par
14 log alert\par
15 clock daemon\par
16 local use 0 (local0)\par
17 local use 1 (local1)\par
18 local use 2 (local2)\par
19 local use 3 (local3)\par
20 local use 4 (local4)\par
21 local use 5 (local5)\par
22 local use 6 (local6)\par
23 local use 7 (local7)\par
\pard\par
By default the \ldblquote Eventlog to Syslog\rdblquote  service logs to facility 3, system daemon, but it can be configured to log to whatever facility you specify using the \i\endash f \-\i0 switch.\par
\par
\pard\keepn\s2\sb240\sa60\b\fs28 7. Appendix\par
\pard\li360\fs24 7.1 The Configuration File\par
\b0 If no configuration file is found a default configuration file is generated with the following contents:\par
\f2\par
\fs20 '!!!!THIS FILE IS REQUIRED FOR THE SERVICE TO FUNCTION!!!!\par
'\par
'Comments must start with an apostrophe and\par
'must be the only thing on that line.\par
'\par
'Do not combine comments and definitions on the same line!\par
'\par
'Format is as follows - EventSource:EventID\par
'In Vista/2k8 and upwards remove the 'Microsoft-Windows-' prefix\par
'**********************:**************************\par
\b\f0\fs24 Note:\par
\b0 In Vista/Server 2008 and onward certain Microsoft specific publishers have a \i Microsoft-Windows- \i0 prefix attached to them. The \ldblquote Eventlog to Syslog\rdblquote  utility strips this prefix in order to save space in the sent message. If you want to ignore one of these events then be sure to remove the prefix when you specify it in the configuration file.\par
\par
\b 7.2 The Status File\par
\b0 The status file is updated by the agent approximately every two minutes. The agent places a single line in the file in the following format:\par
\i Mmm dd hh:mm:ss  - Eventlog to Syslog Service Running\i0\par
You may delete this file at any time and the agent will recreate it at the next interval.\par
\par
\pard\li360\sa200\b 7.3 Miscellaneous\par
\pard\li720 7.3.1 Maximum message size\par
\b0 The maximum size of a Syslog message is defined as 1024 bytes. Anything beyond this threshold is truncated.\par
\par
\b 7.3.2 Polling interval\par
\b0 The \ldblquote Eventlog to Syslog\rdblquote  service polls for messages every 5 seconds.\par
\par
\b 7.3.3 Timestamps\par
\b0 Event timestamps are captured from the event itself.\par
The agent generates its own timestamps for error and informational messages.\par
\pard\li360\par
\par
}
 